[Music]
ten unbelievable things in Spain
imagine neuron star so fast they devour
everything in their path
clouds that smell of fruits and enormous
gathering of galaxies and Louie
Armstrong music in space these are some
of the unbelievable things you can find
in our cosmos the universe is enormous
fascinating and full of secret with a
history that is billions of years old
there are still millions of things to be
discovered today we'll tell you about
ten unbelievable things that are
currently in space but first click the
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to be one of the first
rightsiders to watch our videos number
Black Widow mating is a dangerous
business for a male black widow spider
since there's a big chance that the
female will devour them while mating
that's why in 1988 when scientists found
a pulsar that seemed to devour a nearby
star they named it the Black Widow
pulsar a pulsar of this kind is a
neutron star that rotates at about 600
times per second and emits
electromagnetic radiation the black
widow pulsar orbits a brown dwarf star
and it completes the orbit in just over
nine hours so it's basically a super
fast spinning star that sounds really
cool right but keep in mind that the
black widow pulsar is slowly killing its
brown dwarf companion the high energy
emissions and wind of the pulsar chip
away at the dwarfs material and will
eventually eat it away entirely
calculations suggest that it will
completely evaporate the brown dwarf in
about a billion years in essence eating
the smaller star gives more energy to
the pulsar just like a black widow
spider number 9 massive Sun how big do
you think the Sun actually is in
comparison to earth when you look up at
the Sun it looks pretty tiny from where
we stand
the radius of the earth is three
thousand nine hundred sixty three miles
at the equator the Sun is eight hundred
forty six thousand four hundred miles
across if the Sun were like an empty
ball
how many planet Earth's do you think you
could fit inside let's see if you can do
some fast math you could fit 1.3 million
earths inside the Sun the Sun accounts
for ninety nine point eight six percent
of the mass of the solar system and do
you remember the two largest planets in
our solar system Jupiter and Saturn make
up most of the remaining point one four
percent so now you have an idea of how
big the Sun really is number eight
raspberry cloud 390 light-years from the
Milky Way galaxy we find an enormous
dust cloud called Sagittarius b2 and
when we say enormous we mean it it is
over 100 light-years wide but why do we
have such an interest in this cloud
because it is known to taste of
raspberries and it also smells like rum
yes
you heard us right Sagittarius b2
contains vast amount of a chemical
compound called ethyl formate when you
mix ethanol with formic acid you get
ethyl formate
which is an ester esters are known as
smell molecules and they provide strong
floral fruit and wine smells and that
accounts for the raspberry taste but
what about that rum smell well the first
ethanol ever found in space was located
here in 1975 as such this enormous cloud
contains billions of litres of alcohol
but we can't just head out there to have
an endless source of booze the ethanol
is mixed with a dozen other compounds
including propyl cyanide which can be
lethal to humans
number seven bling-bling
Saturn has always stood out with its
characteristic rings scientists believe
that only planets could have rings until
they encountered the rings of charlo in
2013 just past Saturn
they found a tiny asteroid with two
rings of its own chariklo is considered
a centaur no not the mythological
creature the named centaur reflects the
mysterious nature of the small celestial
bodies located between Jupiter and
Neptune that have the characteristics of
asteroids or comets scientists continue
to study shark lo but for now it remains
a mystery as the purpose of the tiny
rings remains uncertain number six
Himiko cloud when it was announced in
2009 the Himiko cloud showed up as just
a blob despite the low quality picture
scientists were moved to investigate
more about the cloud and they used a
telescope in Hawaii to gather more data
they discovered that the Himiko cloud
existed at a time when the universe was
just 800 million years old the universe
is 13.8 billion years old right now
so the Himiko cloud comes from a time
when the universe was just a baby it is
the most massive object found in the
early universe so massive that it
contains the mass of roughly 40 billion
suns
Himiko was named after a legendary and
mysterious Japanese Queen and the Himiko
cloud is also a mystery it is the first
glimpse scientists have had of the early
formation of galaxies number five the
biggest baddest black holes black holes
represent a very tight and dense area of
space where gravity is so strong that
not even light can get out once it goes
in black holes range from small as large
as an atom to supermassive nearly all
galaxies are thought to have
supermassive black holes that are from a
million to a billion times the mass of
our Sun in 2011 astronomers discovered
one of the biggest black holes in
existence when they found one in the
NGC 38:42 galaxy but don't worry the
black hole is really far away
the NGC 38:42 galaxy is located in the
Coma Cluster more than 320 million light
years away the black hole there
has the mass of nine point seven billion
suns and is 2500 times bigger than the
black hole at the center of the Milky
Way wait what did you know about the
black hole in the center of the Milky
Way will tell you more about it a little
later on number four the fat one El
Gordo or the fat one in Spanish is the
name of the most enormous grouping of
galaxies ever found in the distant
universe remember that we can only see
so far into the universe because the
light from distant objects takes time to
travel back to us the area that we can
see is called the observable universe
the distant universe is a location for
objects that reside on the edges of the
observable universe and that's where El
Gordo is located more than seven billion
light-years from Earth it contains the
mass of three million billion suns and
is the product of two galaxy clusters it
is also the hottest and brightest galaxy
cluster known to us to make matters more
intense the clusters are in the process
of colliding at millions of miles per
hour number three
music and art in space when NASA was set
to launch the space probes Voyager 1 and
2 in 1977 they got an idea they wanted
to transmit information about life on
Earth to extraterrestrials if they were
to find the probe so they created the
golden record
they used a 12 inch phonograph record
with a gold-plated copper disc and
loaded it with sounds and images to
portray life on Earth the golden record
includes greetings in more than 50
languages images of human anatomy
diverse sounds and nearly 90 minutes of
music the beetles didn't make it onto
the record but if aliens find it they
can delight in music by Louis Armstrong
and Chuck Berry among
artists amazingly both probes are still
communicating with NASA and have
operated for almost 41 years they are
the spacecraft that are more distant
from Earth than any other there's still
time before Voyager 1 stops working so
maybe we'll hear back from
extraterrestrials to date we haven't had
any responses that we know of
number 2 orphans of the universe planets
are usually found orbiting a star but
it's a lonesome existence for a planet
called CF BD sir2 149 - 2 0 4 0 3 whoa
that's a mouthful so we'll call it CF
for short astronomers discovered the
rogue planet wandering alone in 2012 the
planet is just 100 light years away from
Earth and it's a gas giant four to seven
times bigger than Jupiter rogue planets
end up alone in the cosmos when they are
kicked out or ejected from their
planetary systems cf was the closest
planet found at the time but more have
shown up since in 2016 scientists
discovered another rogue planet just 20
light-years from Earth although the
surface temperature on this new planet
is over 1500 degrees Fahrenheit it must
be a cold and lonesome existence for
this rogue planet number one black hole
in the Milky Way the center of the Milky
Way holds a supermassive black hole
called Sagittarius egg it is located
2,600 light-years from Earth and has a
mass 4 million times bigger than our Sun
scientists believe that it was unlikely
that the black hole was there by itself
and they were right in 2018 a team
headed by Columbia University's
astrophysics lab analyzed NASA data
collected over 12 years and discovered
that there are 300 to 500 additional
black holes close to Sagittarius a and
about 10,000 black holes in the vicinity
since black holes are invisible and the
only way of knowing they are there is to
look at how matter reacts in a
particular location it is difficult for
researchers to find them though Albert
Einstein predicted eight years ago
scientists have only just started to
discover the
holes in space-time that point to the
existence of black holes and in the
future we can count on many more being
discovered do you know of any other
amazing things in space tell us in the
comments section and don't forget to
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]